My 12-year-old daughter recently asked me what I think about abortion. She walked into the kitchen, poked around the refrigerator, then spun around and blurted it out: “I can’t decide what I think about abortion. I want to know what you think.”

My daughter is an avid consumer of the news. Unlike myself at her age, she’s genuinely interested in political news — news about climate change, racial and gender justice, and the next election. As her question hung in the air between us, I knew immediately that she had read the news that our home state, Ohio, had just banned nearly all abortions with no exceptions for rape or incest. Kentucky had already done so, in a law that’s since been blocked by a federal judge. Alabama would soon follow. Several other states were lining up in the queue, eager to strip women of the right to choose.

I took a deep breath. Her question took me by surprise, and yet I had been waiting for it since the day she was born. I always knew the time would come when I would have to tell my daughters the truth: I was raped. And I had an abortion. One day, you may face these challenges too.

By age 45, nearly one in four women in the United States will have had an abortion, despite a steep decline in abortion rates since 2008 that experts say is due largely to increased availability of contraceptives. The likelihood of rape is also high. According to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, one in five women will be raped in their lifetime. This estimate strikes me as absurdly low, given what I know about my close female friends and family members.


I did not call my mother after I was raped, but I called her immediately after I learned that I had gotten pregnant as a result. It was my first semester of law school and I was terrified that everything I had hoped for my future was suddenly unraveling before my eyes. At the time, my father was unemployed. My mother was working a minimum-wage job. Miraculously, I was at Stanford Law School with a chance to pursue my dream of being a civil rights lawyer. But now everything was falling apart. I was devastated, emotionally wrecked, not only because I had been raped but because I was pregnant with my rapist’s child. I wondered aloud whether I should just quit law school and give birth to the baby that had been forced inside me.

My mother listened quietly. She then told me that she, too, had been raped at about my age. She was raped by her boss when she was 20 years old. It was her first sexual experience. As she choked back tears, she said she never wanted her own daughter to experience the same fate. I begged her to tell me what to do — should I have this baby? — but she gently refused. “This is your choice, Michelle. Thank God you have a choice.”

Image 
A Georgia state representative, Erica Thomas, at a protest against recently passed bills banning abortion. Credit Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images  
I found it difficult to face what had occurred. Like countless women, I found a way to blame myself: Why did I drunk-dial him at midnight? Why did I say he could come to my dorm room at that hour? Why didn’t I scream? He wasn’t a big man; he was rather skinny — muscular, but lean. Couldn’t I have fought him off? I did say no, over and over, and tried to stop him. But his hand slipped over my mouth to silence me and his forearm pressed down across my shoulders to pin me to the mattress.

I didn’t call the police — not after he left my dorm room and not after I discovered I was pregnant. I never once imagined that calling the police could help my situation. It could only make things worse. I envisioned prosecutors, courtrooms and interrogations. I was trying to survive my first year of law school, worried I might fail out, wondering how I would make it through my first round of exams. The last thing I wanted was to become a court case myself. Nor did I want a baby. I had no extended family to fall back on; no one who could loan me money to help raise a child; no place to go except to my parents’ rented home — a place that felt temporary, at best, given their financial insecurity and recent eviction. I did not want to give a baby away and I did not want to raise my rapist’s child.

At the time, I felt terribly alone but my circumstances were far from unusual. Black women have the highest rates of abortion in the country, undoubtedly due to the severe wealth gap between black and white families — a gap that holds even among the poor. The white household living near the poverty line typically has about $18,000 in wealth — primarily due to intergenerational wealth transfers — while black households in similar economic straits typically have a median wealth near zero. Although women of all colors who are poor are far more likely than those who have greater resources to choose to end their pregnancies, the situation for black women is especially dire. Although our families often want to help, as mine certainly did, that frequently proves to be a practical impossibility. A 2014 report found that for every dollar of wealth owned by the typical white family, the median black family owns just 5 cents. Even if I wanted to give birth to my rapist’s baby — which I did not — I, like so many others, could not turn to my family for help.

During my second year in law school, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a case, Rust v. Sullivan, that many worried might overturn the constitutional right to abortion established by Roe v. Wade. I recall some male law students arguing that abortion bans wouldn’t be so bad, so long as there were exceptions made in cases of rape. I wondered how a “rape exception” to an abortion ban could possibly help women, like me, who did not want to report a rape to the police and who could not possibly prove that a rape occurred if the man denied it. Criminal cases take months, even years, to be resolved. Would abortions be allowed based on mere allegations of rape without any proof? If not, what would a woman have to prove in a matter of days or weeks to get an abortion in the first trimester? How could she overcome the inevitable denial? What man would admit to rape knowing that he’d face a likely prison sentence?

My own situation proved to be highly unusual in one respect. The man who raped me admitted what he had done and apologized. I doubt if he would’ve done the same if I’d been legally required to report the rape to obtain an abortion. I know many women who’ve been raped; not one has called the cops.

My rapist called the day after he violated me and left an awkward message on my answering machine saying he was sorry about “what happened.” He did not use the word “rape.” He asked me to call him back. I did not. More messages were left in the days that followed; each time he sounded more distraught, more apologetic, more despondent.

On the day I learned I was pregnant, I finally decided to call. I wanted to punish him with the news. Look what you’ve done to me. I wanted him to know that his actions had consequences and this was something we’d both have to live with for the rest of our lives, no matter what I decided. When he answered the phone, he sounded relieved that I had finally called. I interrupted his efforts to apologize yet again to deliver my news. After a long silence, he asked quietly, “Are you sure it’s mine?” I nearly threw the phone against the wall but instead steadied myself and told him coldly that yes, you did this.

“Oh, no,” he sighed. A long pause. “Are you going to keep it? It’s your choice, totally up to you.”

“I know it’s my choice,” I replied.

An even longer pause followed. The silence stretched between us and I refused to be the one to break it. Then he said slowly: “I know you don’t believe me, but I am sorry. I didn’t give you a choice. I will never forgive myself for what I did.”

Image 
Activists in Washington this week. Credit Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency, via Shutterstock  
I know many women yearn for an apology like that. Eve Ensler, the renowned feminist playwright, just published a powerful book, “The Apology,” that lays out in wrenching detail what she wished her father had said to her after years of brutal violence and sexual abuse. What I experienced in my dorm room was far less horrific but I still couldn’t accept his apology. I didn’t even think I wanted one. I told myself that I wanted nothing from him. I refused his offer to pay for the abortion. I refused to allow him to drive me to the clinic or to care for me upon my release. I refused to allow him to believe that there was anything he could do to make up for what he had done.

And yet, years later, I realized that I was free. I no longer felt fear, anger or resentment toward the man who raped me. Without even realizing it, I had forgiven him. It’s difficult to imagine that I would feel the same if he had shown me no care or concern, or if I had been forced to endure a fresh wave of trauma in our court system, or if I had been forced to give birth to a child that I did not choose.

My daughter listened to my story with wide, frightened eyes. She did not want to hear that something like this had happened to me or that it could happen to her. Eventually she asked whether I thought my rapist’s apology was truly sincere. Her skepticism was well founded. After all, many abusive partners apologize over and over again for the harm they’ve done even as they continue to do it. I would never tell my daughter or any woman to accept an apology or to forgive a man who abuses her. Nor would I tell any woman whether she should or should not terminate a pregnancy. Those are not my choices to make.

What I did say to my daughter, as she sat perched on our kitchen stool, is that I am filled with gratitude for the women who came before us — women who fought for the right to choose, who dared to imagine that we had the right to control our bodies and who said loudly and proudly that we should not be forced to bear children against our will. Roe v. Wade is rooted in a basic understanding that women’s lives matter and that we have rights, needs and interests that don’t vanish when we become pregnant. Pregnancy and childbirth can be extremely difficult — emotionally and physically painful — and bringing a child into the world is an enormous responsibility. Deciding whether or not to give birth may be the most important decision a woman will ever make, potentially changing the course of her life forever — or ending it. Black women, in particular, have high mortality rates during pregnancy. In some areas of Mississippi, black and Latina women are more likely than women in some of the poorest countries in the world to experience a pregnancy-related death. Forcing any woman to see a pregnancy to term may be risking her life as well as her physical and emotional health.

I said to my daughter, as a young woman, you will be faced with many difficult choices in your life and I cannot protect you from all that may come your way. You will have to decide for yourself what you think about abortion and everything else. I will always respect the careful decisions you make. But since you asked me, I will tell you: If we want to continue to have the rights and freedoms that were won in the generations that came before us, if we want gender and racial equality, and if we want the right to control our own bodies and destinies, we are going to have to stand up, speak out and fight for our right to choose.

Strong storms sweeping across the Plains and Midwest over the past week have spawned a wave of destructive tornadoes, including one that touched down in the Oklahoma City suburb of El Reno late on Saturday, wrecking a motel, a car dealership and part of a mobile home park and leaving at least two people dead. Missouri’s state capital, Jefferson City, and several other towns were struck by tornadoes late Wednesday, causing at least three deaths.

Forecasters said there was a moderate risk of tornadoes and damaging hail on Sundayin southwestern Kansas and the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles.

Here’s what you can do to stay safe when tornadoes are threatening your area, based on recommendations from the National Weather Service and other experts.

When powerful thunderstorms are coming
• Stay alert for watches and warnings. A “watch” means conditions are right for a tornado to form somewhere in a wide area; a “warning” means one has definitely been sighted nearby. Monitor local news broadcasts and online alerts; listen for sirens if they are used in your area. One good source to check regularly: The National Weather Service’s special tornado Twitter feed.

• When a watch is posted, get ready. Have a plan and make sure everyone in the family knows what it is. Don’t forget to plan for pets. Secure outdoor objects that might become dangerous in a high wind, like lawn furniture and gas grills. Have any prescription medicines ready to take with you to shelter.

• When a warning is posted, head for cover right away. You may have only a few minutes to reach safety.

Where to shelter when a tornado strikes
• If you are indoors: The cellar or basement, or if there is none, an interior room without windows on the lowest floor. Stay near the center of the room. Avoid large, open indoor spaces like school cafeterias and shopping malls.

• If you are outdoors: The sturdiest building you can reach quickly. Avoid sheds, storage facilities and other lightly built structures.

• If you are driving: Don’t try to ride out the storm in your vehicle if you can help it. Get into a building, or failing that, try to find shelter in a low-lying area like a ditch or ravine. If you have no other option, get down as low as you can in the car.

• Wherever you are, cover up, especially your head. Television forecasters often recommend wearing a bicycle helmet if one is available. Get under a sturdy piece of furniture like a desk or workbench, or cover your body with a sleeping bag or mattress.

When the tornado passes
• Stay informed. Keep monitoring local news, alerts, watches and warnings. There may be more storms coming, or other hazards from severe weather like hail, lightning and flooding.

• Check in. Let family and friends know how you are faring. Text messages and social media posts may be most effective.

• Tread carefully in assessing damage. Protect yourself with sturdy shoes, long pants and long sleeves. Be alert for hazards like downed power lines, broken glass, sharp or jagged metal debris and damaged propane tanks. Look up as well as down, for possible danger from damaged trees and utility poles.
One of the last things Lesandro Guzman-Feliz heard before a gang of Trinitarios chased him down and hacked him to death last summer was a cryptic number, phrased as a question: 1090?

The number was a test, designed by a Trinitarios leader, to determine if someone was a member of a rival group, according to testimony on Monday from a gang member who has pleaded guilty to taking part in the killing.

Only allies would know how to answer. Lesandro, who was 15, did not understand and fled, so the gang went after him, the witness, Kevin Alvarez, said.

The group of Trinitarios was out hunting for enemies last summer when they encountered Lesandro and mistook him for a member of a rival set within the same gang. Police have confirmed that Lesandro was not a gang member.

The Trinitarios chased the boy for blocks, on foot and in cars, in the Belmont section of the Bronx, prosecutors said. He tried to hide inside a bodega near his home, but they found him. They dragged him from the store, and attacked him with machetes and knives. His murder was captured by security cameras and cellphone videos.

“He was alone, unarmed, defenseless, outmanned and out-armed by this group of men,” Morgan Dolan, the lead prosecutor, said in her opening remarks on May 6. “He begged for his life.”

The murder of Lesandro Guzman-Feliz, known as Junior, drew outrage across New York City. Our investigation retraces his last steps — and reveals how a recent wave of violence took his life just two blocks from home. Credit Credit Illustration by Drew Jordan   
The murder of Lesandro, also known as Junior, reverberated in New York City as few crimes have in recent years, prompting national outrage and empathy from city officials and celebrities.

At a time when crime in the city has reached record-low levels, the case also spotlighted the viciousness and vitality of the Trinitarios, a highly organized Dominican gang that authorities had tried to dismantle nearly a decade ago after a federal takedown.

But on Monday, Mr. Alvarez, who was one of the 14 men involved in the attack on Lesandro and was videotaped dragging him from the bodega, provided the first detailed look at why the gang believed the boy was a member of a rival group.

It was a faulty assumption, Mr. Alvarez said, based on Lesandro’s willingness to walk in an area known to be enemy territory and his response to the test question.

The leader of the Bronx Trinitarios, Diego Suero, had developed “a code” to weed out members of a Brooklyn-based set of Trinitarios called Sunset, Mr. Alvarez said.

Members of two sets of the Bronx Trinitarios — the Bad Boys and Los Sures — had spent June 20 hunting for Sunset members. They wanted revenge because a member of Sunset had shot a member of the Bad Boys in the face, Mr. Alvarez testified.

For the past two weeks jurors have heard testimony against five of the men on trial in connection with Lesandro’s death: Jonaiki Martinez Estrella, Antonio Rodriguez Hernandez Santiago, Jose Muniz, Manuel Rivera and Elvin Garcia. All five are charged with first-degree murder, second-degree conspiracy, first-degree gang assault and related offenses.

Lesandro was caught in a bloody internecine feud within the Trinitarios between two Bronx sets and the Brooklyn-based Sunset faction. The fighting had intensified last summer, and at least 10 other people were maimed in June in tit-for-tat attacks.

Mr. Suero had warned his members to carry a weapon at all times. If they saw a member of the rival group, they were told to “do whatever possible to hurt the Sunset member,” Mr. Alvarez said.

On June 20, Mr. Suero had given the soldiers orders to go to East 183rd street and Adams Place, where their rivals were known to hang out, Mr. Alvarez said. The gang had received information that a member of Sunset had been spotted in the area.

That night, Lesandro had told his mother he was headed out to lend a friend $5. He left their home on Bathgate Avenue, visited a friend’s apartment, then walked toward Adams Place, where he sometimes met with neighborhood friends.

The men, traveling in four cars, saw Lesandro walking while on his phone, Mr. Alvarez said. They shouted out a Trinitarios call: “Po-po!” When Lesandro looked up, several of the gang members got out of the cars and went up to the boy.

Next, came the test question: “1090?” Mr. Alvarez said the code was used to identify Sunset members, who were unaware they were being hunted. He said someone from one of the other Trinitarios sets would know to say which gang they belonged to.

Lesandro’s response did not satisfy the men. “He looked very surprised and scared,” Mr. Alvarez said. “The only thing I heard him say is that he wasn’t Sunset.”  The men continued to press him with questions, and then one of them made a gesture as if he were going to hit Lesandro, who turned and ran.

As Lesandro ran for his life, Mr. Alvarez said he and other gang members attempted to block the teenager with their cars, but Lesandro got away and fled into a bodega, the Cruz and Chiky Grocery, at East 183rd Street and Bathgate Avenue.

Mr. Alvarez had only joined Los Sures a few months earlier and was a “probationary” member, still trying to earn his spot. He said the second-in-command of his gang, Frederick Then, known as “Colita,” gave the order to bring Lesandro out of the bodega.

Mr. Alvarez said he and two other gang members went into the store. He explained to the store owner and workers that he believed Lesandro was part of a rival gang that had shot one of their own.

Lesandro, who had hidden behind the counter, pleaded with them, saying he was not the person they were looking for and that “he didn’t do none of that.”

Mr. Alvarez, who is 20, stopped repeatedly to wipe tears from his cheek as he spoke.

The store owner told them to take the fight outside and then unlocked a door leading to the area behind the counter where Lesandro was hiding, Mr. Alvarez said.

Mr. Alvarez said he and another gang member punched and kicked Lesandro before dragging him out. “He was trying to grab onto things — he grabbed a rack with chips and the door and the fridge,” Mr. Alvarez said.

Once they pulled him out outside, Mr. Muniz rushed over wielding a machete, Mr. Garcia with a “very big knife,” Mr. Rivera also with a knife, while Mr. Martinez Estrella eventually joined in, Mr. Alvarez said.

Mr. Alvarez said he let go of Lesandro and backed away. Prosecutors have said that Mr. Martinez Estrella delivered the fatal blow.

“At that point I was scared of what was about to happen,” he said.

Lesandro shouted for the men to stop and screamed for help as he tried to block the blows of machetes and knives to his body, Mr. Alvarez said.

After Mr. Alvarez’s testimony, Lesandro’s mother, Leandra Guzman, told reporters her son was innocent.

“He said he was not a gang member,” she said as she left the courthouse, “and they killed him just for fun.”
In the last decade, Hollywood, lured by hefty tax breaks, has embraced Georgia with fervor, and Georgia has hugged it right back.

From the former stay-at-home mom who now has a steady job as a zombie to the farm boy who was a paid extra on “Stranger Things” and now leads movie tours, to the once sleepy, postcard-perfect town of Senoia, which has served as a giant set for “The Walking Dead,” so many Georgia workers, property owners and service industries rely on film and television income that the region has adopted a cutesy nickname: “Y’allywood.”

But Georgia’s recent passage of a highly restrictive abortion law has turned its once cozy relationship with Tinsel Town into a fraught one, and put Hollywood’s liberal politics on a collision course with its own economic interests in the state.

Some notable actors and directors, including Jason Bateman of “Ozark” and Alyssa Milano of “Insatiable,” both filming in the state for Netflix, have said they will stop working there if the law goes into effect in January. This week, two productions that had been looking at places to shoot in Georgia said they would go elsewhere instead.

But the industry’s response to the law has been far from unified. There have been pledges to boycott Georgia and promises to stay. Most strikingly, there has been near total silence from top studio brass.

The careful treading is not unique to Hollywood. Across corporate America, there has been little reaction to new laws or bills restricting abortion in Georgia, Alabama and elsewhere, a stark contrast with the widespread boycotts and condemnations that have greeted and sometimes led to the softening of laws that restricted gay and transgender rights in various states.

In 2016, Disney and its Marvel affiliate rallied behind a planned boycott after Georgia signed a religious freedom bill, which was criticized as antigay and ultimately vetoed. But on the abortion laws, Disney, Warner Bros., Netflix and other titans of the film industry are not publicly coming down on either side.

Concerns about profits could explain why: Any boycott would cause untold economic damage to their workers in the state, and to their own bottom line. And it could easily alienate the huge swaths of the country where many people oppose abortion.

If nothing else, Hollywood knows its audience. While Americans broadly support gay rights, for example, some studio executives have noted in private conversations that the country is far from united on the issue of abortion. In a CBS News poll this month, two-thirds of respondents said they did not want Roe v. Wade overturned, but at the same time, half either wanted stricter limits on abortion, or a complete ban.

That tracked results of other polls, which also have shown young people to be only slightly more open to abortion rights than older age groups.

“When companies decide to take overt stances, they want to align with young consumers, because that’s their future,” said Mary-Hunter McDonnell, a management professor at Wharton who specializes in corporate social responsibility. “With abortion, there’s more debate and uncertainty within that population about how to feel.”

Some studio executives are privately saying they hope that a lower court strikes down Georgia’s law, which bans abortions after a fetal heartbeat can be detected, or after about six weeks. Such a decision would help defuse the issue, at least until the Supreme Court decides whether to take up the law.

On Tuesday, in what might prove to be either an aberration or a harbinger, the company producing “The Power,” a TV series based on the best-selling novel by Naomi Alderman, confirmed it had abandoned plans to scout Savannah, Ga., as a potential location, in direct response to the new law. Scouting plans were also scotched for the Kristen Wiig film “Barb and Star Go to Vista del Mar” for the same reason, according to a person familiar with the production. Ron Howard has said he will keep the production of “Hillbilly Elegy” in the state and donate to the ACLU, but that he would not return in the future should the law go into effect.

But mostly, key players inside Georgia’s film and television business have declined to weigh in. They include the mogul Tyler Perry, whose huge studio complex occupies a former army base; representatives from two other prominent studios in the Atlanta area — Pinewood, used by Marvel films, and EUE/Screen Gems — and AMC, the cable channel behind “The Walking Dead.”

“Our jobs are not going anywhere,” said Mea Tharp, the onetime stay-at-home mother who now is a regular “walker” on the show.

Film industry workers in Atlanta said they had yet to see any hints of work drying up. In an email to its members last week, Local 479 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, the union representing crew members, said there were no signs of an industrywide pullout from the state, and that the 30 projects underway in Atlanta was on par with previous years. “We see no reason to expect any slowdown as the year progresses,” the union said.

Enticed by a 20 percent state tax credit (and another 10 percent if they use the Georgia Film Commission’s logo in their credits) film and television productions brought Georgia $2.7 billion in revenues in the 2017 fiscal year, according to state figures. An estimated 92,000 jobs are connected to the industry in Georgia, and more top-grossing films were produced here in 2017 than in any other state, according to the most recently available data.

Sites across Atlanta have stood in for Oakland, New York, South Korea and Nigeria in the films “Black Panther,” “Spider-Man: Homecoming,” and “Captain America: Civil War.”

Tourists amplify the boon. “The Walking Dead” has drawn tens of thousands of “walker stalkers,” as its fans are known, to Senoia from all over the world. “It brought the town back to life,” said Stephen Sweet, who grew up in rural Georgia, never imagining he could earn a living as an extra and stand-in; he also leads movie tours in Atlanta along with “The Walking Dead” tours in Senoia, about 30 miles to the south.

At the Georgia Tour Co. shop on Senoia’s Main Street, a pushpin wall map shows visitors from New Zealand, Madagascar, the Philippines, Somalia and Iran. “They just come in and say ‘Walking Dead,’” said Niki Conlan, who works there. The shop is on its third map, having twice run out of space on earlier ones.

Any talks of a boycott have not ruffled the conservatives backing the law. Over the weekend, Gov. Brian Kemp, a Republican, said his party stood firm behind the law, “even though that makes C-list celebrities squawk.” And David O’Steen, the executive director of the anti-abortion group National Right to Life Committee, said in an interview that he doubted that the “good people of Georgia are terribly worried.”

A full boycott, in his opinion, was unlikely to happen, not least because of how much the industry has invested, and saved, working in the state. “They’re there because they can operate more profitably,” he said. “It’s not going to have any impact.”

Even many in the industry who are inclined to oppose the law are opposing any boycott. Some female filmmakers in Georgia have petitioned Hollywood to stay put, while praising the actions of J.J. Abrams and Jordan Peele. Both have pledged to keep their production of “Lovecraft Country” in Georgia and donate earnings to the ACLU and Fair Fight Georgia, which is led by Stacey Abrams, the Democrat who became a national liberal icon by nearly defeating Mr. Kemp. In a tweet, Ms. Abrams said that while she respected calls for a boycott, “I do not believe it is the most effective, strategic choice for change.”
Schenley Sargusingh, 34, who works in the set lighting department, took a longer view. By maintaining a large presence in the state, he said, Hollywood had enticed liberal film workers to move to Georgia and helped nudge it toward becoming a battleground state. Mr. Sargusingh, a Washington native, moved to Georgia from North Carolina, and is now bringing his girlfriend and her children down from there too.

Still, the scattered calls for a boycott have unloosed jitters and a measure of resentment in an industry peopled by both locals and transplants. Some wondered what exactly Hollywood types expected: Atlanta may be a liberal-leaning city and paragon of the New South, they said, but it is still in the conservative South. And what if similar abortion bills are passed in whatever tax-incentive state the film industry might move to next?

“Whatever it is they get twisted about, we get held hostage,” said Nick Allin, a Georgia native and 22-year film industry veteran who works as a grip. While he personally opposed the law, he said, “It is kind of hard to have a livelihood and a job and a career you’ve invested in since 1997 held hostage every time you turn around because someone from California doesn’t like a law in your state.”
Notes: Does not include the nine vice presidents who assumed the presidency after the death or resignation of the previous president. While some rankings are self-explanatory — senator is a higher position than representative, and governor is higher than mayor — others are somewhat subjective. From highest to lowest, we ranked the positions as follows: vice president, cabinet member, governor or senator, House member, mayor. No tiebreakers were needed between governor and senator. 
You’ve never seen a House member elected president. Neither have your parents — nor, in all likelihood, their parents. The last time it happened, there were 38 states and electricity was a novelty.

The year was 1880, the congressman James Garfield. The 14 decades since are littered with the failed campaigns of candidates who thought they could replicate his feat.

But that hasn’t stopped six current and former House members from trying this year, a full quarter of the Democratic field.

As for what Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, the most recent addition to the candidate throng, is trying to do: Well, no one has ever done it. Never in American history has a sitting mayor been elected president, or even received a major party’s nomination. But three — Mr. de Blasio; Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind.; and Wayne Messam of Miramar, Fla. — are running now.
The 2016 Republican field, which was almost as big as the Democratic field is now, included no House members or mayors. Of the 17 candidates, nine were sitting or former governors, and five were sitting or former senators.

But, of course, all those governors and senators lost to Donald J. Trump, who had no political experience at all. Before Mr. Trump was elected, no one had ever become president without a background in government or the military. Now, it’s harder to say what the bar is — or whether voters care.

The highest previous position of each U.S. president, by date of first election

*Does not include those who assumed the presidency after the death or resignation of the previous president. 
As the chart above shows, a small number of offices have produced the vast majority of our presidents. A governorship is the most common steppingstone. This year, though, only three of the 23 Democratic candidates are or have been governors, and all of them are trailing in polls.

While the vice presidency might seem the most obvious launching pad for the presidency, only five people have done what Joseph R. Biden Jr. is trying to do now: get elected after completing his vice presidency. Fourteen presidents were previously vice presidents, but nine of them took over when a president died or resigned. (Four of those nine went on to win a full term.)

Cabinet secretaries were elected president much more often in the early days of the republic than they are now. Hillary Clinton came close in 2016. But of the six presidents whose highest previous office was in the cabinet, four were elected before 1850, and the most recent, Herbert Hoover, was elected almost 100 years ago.

Senators occupy an interesting space in modern presidential history: frequently nominated but rarely elected. Since 1960, Americans have elected only two senators — John F. Kennedy and Barack Obama — to the presidency, but five more received their party’s nomination. This year, however, seven are running for the Democratic nomination, and most of the front-runners are among them.

By the time you get down to the House, the history is paper-thin, and thinner still for rank-and-file members. Garfield, the last House member elected, was a committee chairman.

But the six 2020 candidates in this category have one thing going for them: They are not the least experienced in the pack.

Two of their competitors, Marianne Williamson and Andrew Yang, are following a path on which nobody but Mr. Trump has been successful: They are running for president with no political or military experience at all.

Highest previous position of all U.S. presidents

