Meanwhile a German tourist was swept to her death as she walked along a beach in southern Corsica on Sunday as high waves battered the French Mediterranean island, officials said. 

The woman, who was in her sixties, "was swept away by the waves as she was walking along the beach at Porto," the emergency services said. 

The incident occurred as southeastern France was battered by unseasonably high winds of up to 138 kilometres per hour, the Meteo France weather service said. 

In the southeastern Alpes-de-Haute-Provence region, high winds left nearly 2,000 homes without power. 

Three French mountaineers were rescued from Monte Rosa in the Alps at around 4,000 metres altitude as temperatures fell as low as -15 degrees Celsius, Italian media reported.

a #tourEiffel est actuellement fermée jusqu'à nouvel ordre. Pour éviter une trop longue attente, nous conseillons à nos visiteurs de reporter leur visite.
???? The Eiffel Tower is currently closed until further notice. We kindly advise our visitors to postpone their visit.
The esplanade underneath the monument was also evacuated.
   
"We kindly advise our visitors to postpone their visit," the SETE added on Twitter.
   
Police have made contact with the climber but do not yet know why he began his ascent via the iron beams, a police source told AFP.
   
In October 2017 the tower was also evacuated after a young man ventured out on one of the beams and threatened to commit suicide, before police were able 
to convince him to come back.

And back in 2014, The Local reported on the story of an intoxicated man who climbed some 30 metres up the Eiffel Tower before police convinced him to climb back down.    
 
Nearly seven million people a year visit the 324-metre-high structure, which last week celebrated its 130th anniversary.
   
The first two floors can be reached by either elevator or stairs, but only elevators whisk people to the top observation deck.
 
A 36-year-old man was stabbed on the Paris Metro after reprimanding a fellow passenger for blocking the doors of the train, according to reports.
After a brief exchange between the pair, the 17-year-old boy turned on the man and stabbed him. 
 
The incident took place on Tuesday morning at the crowded Bastille Metro station in the 4th arrondissement of the French capital, according to a report in Le Parisien. 
 
According to reports, the altercation, which took place on the platform next to the busy train, was all over within seconds.
 
Another passenger, aged 47, was also caught up in the incident and received a small cut to the arm. 
 
Both victims were taken to Saint-Antoine hospital in the 12th arrondissement for treatment and neither are seriously injured. 
 
The teen was later caught in the La Chapelle area of the 18th arrondissement in the north of the French capital, thanks to the accurate descriptions given by his victims along with surveillance footage from the Paris transport network RATP. 
 
The attacker remains in custody.
 
Although violence remain rare on the Paris Metro, there have recently been several high profile incidents, including an acid attack and a woman being pushed onto the tracks back in February. 
 
A report released in 2018 revealed that violent incidences were on the rise on the Paris transport network, with violence up by 20 percent in 2017. 
 
Widespread problems have been reported with the postal voting system. Photo: AFP

Many people say that their postal votes have either not arrived, or arrived so late that they will not make it back to the UK in time for the deadline - which is 10pm on Thursday.

Although it may be too late, people concerned about their vote have been advised that it may be possible to register for an emergency proxy vote.

Normally voters must register in advance for either a postal vote or a proxy vote - where you ask a friend or family member to cast your vote on your behalf - and you can only register for one.

However there is an option to get a last-minute proxy vote which is usually used if an emergency or illness prevents a person from getting to the polling station.

Because of the widely reported problems with the postal system, it is understood that some local authorities will extend emergency proxies to people living overseas.

Kalba Meadow of citizens rights group Remain in France Together (RIFT) posted online that her MEP had told her: "You could call them and ask for an emergency proxy vote. Some local authorities are allowing it." 

The emergency proxy vote can only be authorised by the local council where you are already registered to vote.

You will need to have your proxy arranged and they will have to go to your polling station to vote in the constituency where you are registered.

As polling day got underway in the UK there were widely reported voting problems for both British people living overseas and EU nationals living in the UK and the hashtag #deniedmyvote was trending on Twitter.

The British Electoral Commission told the BBC that it has no involvement in postal votes, but advised people affected to contact their local council.


More and more people who live in second-hand rentals in Sweden are claiming they have been illegally overcharged by landlord. The Local speaks to an expert to find out how prices have changed, why, and how renters can avoid being ripped off.
Rent controls apply to many properties in Sweden, but in the larger cities the queues for these so-called first-hand contracts are so long that many people wait more than ten years for an apartment. These leaves many people relying on sublets or 'second-hand' (andra hand) rentals, particularly since a tightening of requirements to get a mortgage has made it harder for Swedish residents to buy property.

And the cost of these second-hand rentals has soared over the past decade.

Figures shared with The Local by the National Board of Housing (Boverket) showed a steady increase in the price of second-hand rentals when it came to houses, rooms, and sublets of both owned and rented apartments. The increase was most significant among sublets of owned apartments, and in the major cities where the housing shortage is particularly acute.

Assar Lindén, a lawyer at Boverket, told The Local that the groups most likely to need second-hand rentals were young people, students, and recent immigrants, particularly those who move for work or as an asylum seeker, rather than those who move to join family members.

"A lot of people have come to Sweden in recent years. We had a housing shortage before then, but this has made things really difficult, and we know that a lot of people are paying a lot of money to live in the places they want to live," Lindén told The Local.