US risks losing rare-earth supply in trade war

Waging a trade war against China, the United States risks losing the supply of materials that are vital to sustaining its technological strength.

Waging a trade war against China, the United States risks losing the supply of materials that are vital to sustaining its technological strength.

China produces a majority of the world's rare earths, chemical elements that have magnetic and luminescent properties and are used in a range of consumer products and electronics.

While rarely heard, the rare-earth elements are the materials that help light up your smartphone, make X-rays possible and ensure the safe use of nuclear reactors.

As the world's biggest supplier of such materials, China has always been upholding the principles of openness, coordination and sharing in developing its rare-earth industry.

While meeting domestic demands is a priority, China is willing to try its best to satisfy global demand for rare earths as long as they are used for legitimate purposes.

"We are happy to see that the rare-earth resources and related materials can be used in making all kinds of advanced products that help better satisfy the demand for a good life of people from around the world," said an official with the National Development and Reform Commission.

However, if anyone wants to use imported rare earths against China, the Chinese people will not agree.

By making unilateral moves to contain technological development of other countries, the United States seems to have overlooked one fact: The international supply chain is so intertwined that no economy could thrive on its own.

According to the US Geological Survey, from 2014 to 2017 the United States imported 80 percent of its rare-earth compounds and metals from China.

Along with the technological revolution and industrial evolution, rare earths are expected to be applied in more areas, and their strategic value will become more prominent, said the official.

China has reiterated its stand in promoting multilateralism and tried to avoid a trade war that hurts public interests.

But if necessary, China has plenty of cards to play. 

Nobel laureate and German biochemist Robert Huber has set up a workstation in China, with aims to develop cutting-edge technologies in healthcare industry and apply those technologies in practice.

Huber unveiled the workstation in Chengdu, capital of southwestern Sichuan Province, on Monday, expressing the hope that the cooperation will help make achievements in biomedical industries.

The workstation is expected to help tap top talent resources to facilitate high-quality projects related to the healthcare industries.

Known for his contribution in the formulation of the "three-dimensional structure of a photosynthesis reaction center", Huber shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Johann Deisenhofer and Hartmut Michel in 1988. 

Flowers or local snacks used to be popular gifts for Chinese parents, but in today's digital world, more and more Chinese youth are turning to the Internet to buy goods and services for their loved ones.

Guo Tong, 26, purchases nearly everything online ranging from snacks to cosmetics and clothes for her mother who lives in the city of Qinhuangdao, north China's Hebei Province, around 290 km away from Beijing where Guo works.

"I bought a bouquet of flowers and a pair of earrings for my mother's 49th birthday. It is convenient to express my love to my parents with the help of the Internet when I cannot be with them," Guo said.

Guo is just one of many utilizing the web to send gifts. Shopping online for moms and dads has become a new phenomenon in the country where the number of online shoppers hit 610 million as of December 2018, up 14.4 percent year on year.

"Our generation grew up in the internet era, and now we can look after our parents using it, which represents an inevitable trend in social development," a Chinese netizen said.

Back in February 2018, Taobao, China's leading online shopping platform, announced the launch of a new feature called "Family Accounts," connecting all family members in one account to make payment much easier.

Up till now, over 7.5 million people have bonded their accounts to those of their mothers. Children can use their own money to purchase items picked out by their parents. Meanwhile, elderly parents can quickly contact their offsprings via hyper-accessible family chat windows in the accounts.

As a user of this family service, Guo said that technology has created a new way for Chinese people to show love to their family members, as most Chinese are not good at using fancy words to express themselves.

One week before Mother's Day in May, users who purchased the physical examination package for middle-aged and elderly people on Ali Health platform accounted for 35 percent of all physical examination service purchasers, an increase of 14 percent year on year, said the Ali Health, Alibaba's healthcare subsidiary.

For those who live far from their hometowns, returning home for holidays can be a challenging and often expensive ordeal.

"I miss my parents so much, but it is not easy for me to ask too much leave from work," Guo said. "Life in Beijing is always busy."

Li Ketian, a university student in the city of Dalian, northeast China's Liaoning Province, echoes her view.

"This month, I was so busy with my thesis defense and graduation preparation, so choosing a gift online for my mother on Mother's day was the best solution," he said.

As an increasing number of Chinese youth move to bigger cities or even foreign countries for study and work, the Internet bridges the distance between migrant children and their parents.

Zhang Baoyi, head of the Institute of Sociology under the Tianjin Academy of Social Sciences, said online shopping provides a new way for people to express their love and filial piety, a virtue in traditional Chinese culture, to their parents.

"Although gifts from far away are good choices, for elderly and lonely parents, nothing is more important than children's company," Zhang said.

Chinese law enforcement agencies Tuesday launched an upgraded version of its national gang crime informant platform.

The public can provide leads on gang crimes via various online channels, including the official website of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of China Central Committee as well as its official WeChat and Weibo accounts, said Chen Yixin, a senior official with the commission and head of the national office against organized crime, at a press conference.

According to Chen, the upgraded platform utilizes big data, model analysis and cloud computing, among other digital methods, allowing the platform to compare the information of suspects, cases and key areas of the crackdown.

As the crackdown goes wider and deeper, some places lack clues on whitewashed and undiscovered gang crime, while others are short of in-depth investigations for the large amount of leads. The establishment of the upgraded platform aims to meet the new needs of China's crackdown on gangs and organized crimes, according to Chen.

The platform increases mass participation by offering easy accesses on smartphones and computers, as well as detailed instructions and simplified reporting procedures for the public to provide leads, Chen said.

Citizens only need to provide basic information on the gang crime they want to report via the platform, which takes about three minutes, said Wang Hongxiang, a senior official with the commission and deputy head of the national office, at the press conference.

Measures will be taken to prevent relevant information from being leaked, he added.

The platform also enhances accuracy of crackdown by generating submitted clues and automatically processing data, which allows authorities in charge of the gang crime crackdown to better manage and deal with relevant cases and clues, Chen said.

The informants will receive a unique code for each lead they report, with which they can check progress or results online, Wang said, adding that authorities should contact informants who leave their names or contacts within 30 days of their leads being received.

The platform can not only dynamically monitor the process of cases and the movement of vicious gangs but also summarize rules with big data to strengthen the continuity of the crackdown, Chen said.

The original report platform was set up in February 2018 amidst China's increased efforts to crack down on gang crime.

As of March 31, the platform had received more than 190,000 leads on gang crime, from letters and phone calls.  

A man who killed two boys in a knife attack outside a local primary school in June last year has been sentenced to death.

Another boy and a parent were injured in the attack.

 Shanghai No.1 Intermediate People's Court said that although psychiatric tests showed Huang Yichuan had schizophrenia and limited criminal capacity, it didn't affect this case much because his crime was extremely serious and was not obviously influenced by his mental state at the time.

The court said Huang believed he had been insulted and hurt by others, and came up with the idea of killing children to vent his anger.

Between March and October 2017, he went to several cities, including Shanghai and Guangzhou, to take pictures of kindergartens and primary schools as potential targets.

Eventually, the court said, he targeted pupils at the Shanghai World Foreign Language Primary School.

On the morning of June 28, he was near the school waiting for his chance. Around 11:30am, he followed three pupils, surnamed Tan, Fei and Jin, and a parent, Zhang, to a place about 130 meters from the school's south gate before he took out a knife and attacked all four victims.

Tan, who was stabbed in the neck, and Fei, who suffered head injuries, both died.

Jin and Zhang sustained injuries to the head and other parts of the body but they were not life-threatening.

Huang was caught by the school's security guards and members of the public soon after the attack.

The court said Huang had planned the attack on innocent children and his methods had been extremely brutal.

Under certain circumstances, people suffering from mental illness could be exempt from criminal responsibility and receive a lenient sentence, but this was not one of these cases. 

Chinese central government has increased the basic living allowance it gives to orphans by 50 percent beginning this year, a senior official announced Monday.

With the hikes, orphans in less developed western regions receive 600 yuan (US$87) per person each month, while those in central and eastern areas get 450 yuan and 300 yuan, respectively, from central coffers, said Guo Yuqiang, director of the child welfare department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, at a press conference.

Apart from the living allowance, China is gradually extending the coverage of orphans' security to medical and educational aspects, Guo noted.

The government subsidizes the out-of-pocket portion of the medical insurance reimbursement for orphan medical rehabilitation costs with the help of a special program for the vulnerable group.

With regard to education, the ministry intends to introduce a project aimed to assist orphans in their studies by subsidizing the cost of living for orphans admitted to colleges, even after they reach the age of 18.  