 Free day tours of the Southern Islands will be organised for the public between June and September this year, the Sentosa Development Corporation (SDC) told The Straits Times.

The guided heritage tours are part of SDC's activities to mark Singapore's bicentennial, and aim to provide deeper insight into the history of the Singapore Strait and Southern Islands, a spokesman said.

Please subscribe or log in to continue reading the full article. Learn more about ST PREMIUM.

Singapore is an ideal base for Nordic start-ups to explore the region, said Prince Daniel, a member of Sweden's royal family.

Prince Daniel, 45, told The Straits Times in an exclusive interview on Tuesday: "Singapore is an interesting market. The economic development in modern times has been very quick.

A 70-year-old man was killed in an accident on the Tampines Expressway (TPE) in the early hours of Sunday (May 26).

Police said they were alerted to the motorcycle accident on the TPE towards the Pan-Island Expressway at 12.40am.

The man, who had been the pillion rider on the vehicle, was pronounced dead by paramedics at the site of the accident.

The motorcyclist, a 60-year-old man, was conscious when taken to Changi General Hospital, police said.

He was later arrested for causing death by rash act.

In a video circulating on messaging app Telegram, two men can be seen lying unmoving on the road shoulder, several metres apart.

Bits of wreckage are seen scattered on the road.

An orange car can be seen parked by the site of the accident, but the motorcycle is nowhere to be seen.

The Straits Times understands that the motorcycle had crashed into the road's central divider.

Chinese-language daily Lianhe Wanbao reported that a few drivers stopped their vehicles to provide their assistance.

Police are investigating the incident.
About 50 beneficiaries and their families from the Movement for the Intellectually Disabled of Singapore (Minds) went for a walk in the wild with Minister for Culture, Community and Youth Grace Fu on Thursday night (May 23), kicking off the Night Safari's 25th anniversary celebrations.

And from Saturday to June 30, a special edition of the Safari Adventure Tour will be available for visitors. In this private back-of-house experience, guests will prepare a treat for the safari's Asian elephants before giving it to them on the tour.

To mark the special occasion, Singapore residents of all ages will be able to buy tickets for the Night Safari at $25 for one week, from May 25 to May 31.

Tickets are usually priced at $49 for adults and $33 for children.

Ms Isabel Cheng, chief marketing officer of Wildlife Reserves Singapore (WRS), the parent entity of Night Safari, said Singapore residents play a huge part in contributing to the safari's popularity.

She said: "We know that many Singaporeans take their foreign friends to visit us, and we sincerely thank everyone for the support."

In the last five years, WRS has partnered the National Council of Social Service to offer free admission to more than 14,000 beneficiaries of  the council's member organisations.

As the first of its kind, Night Safari has celebrated many accomplishments through its 25 years. They include 13 wins for the Best Attraction award by the Singapore Tourism Board.

 Those in intimate or close relationships with their abusers can soon find some relief under new laws granting them added protections.

Passed in Parliament earlier this month, the changes recognise victims in these two groups as vulnerable. Their abusers can be given twice the maximum punishment for the crimes of rape, wrongful confinement and causing hurt.


